FORT KNOX USER MANUAL

- SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS -
MSX1 with 32KB RAM and 16K VRAM

- PURPOSE OF THE GAME -

FORT KNOX is a remake of Bagman, an arcade video game
released in 1982 by the French Valadon
Automation, also with the title Le bagnard (“the prisoner”),
and in the USA by Stern Electronics under license.
It features an escaped convict intent on stealing
bags of gold from a mine (bagman in English
is a nickname for someone who transports money for the
underworld).
The player controls the convict, with the classic
striped suit, with the objective of collecting the
bags of gold scattered around the mine and transporting them
one at a time to the surface, where he deposits them
in a wheelbarrow. The mine is seen in profile section and is composed of eight screens for each
game level, connected horizontally.
Each screen is a tangle of horizontal and
vertical tunnels, connected by vertical ladders. Some
horizontal tunnels are traveled by static
rail carts.
But be careful of the large condor bird that guards
this gold mine, throwing heavy eggs, if
it touches you, you will lose a life. The convict can also
move the wheelbarrow horizontally. There are also
some bars on the ceiling from which the convict can
hang.
In addition to the joystick for movement in four
directions, there is only one button to
perform all the actions described above.
The soundtrack is based on the
popular song Turkey in the Straw.

- CONTROLS -

DIRECTION: cursor keys or joystick in port 1
space bar or fire key (A) for
action (takes the sack, leaves the sack
on the wheelbarrow, hang on the hook).

- SCORES -

For each sack placed on the wheelbarrow you get 500 points.

- EXTRA LIFE BONUS -

When you reach every 30000 points you will get an additional life,
a sound effect will confirm it.

- GAMEPLAY TECHNIQUE -

A part of this fabulous video game was written in BASIC, but the
GAMEPLAY remains quite fast because for the movement of the convict player1
is managed by a routine in machine code, after which all the management
of the great condor bird is managed by a powerful routine in machine code,
even when he throws the heavy egg it is a software sprite, in order to avoid that
they exceed 4 sprites per line.

The Z80 assembler routine of the big bird CONDOR was designed by Danysoft,
as a credit to him.

This manual accompanies the DSK of the game CATBOX.

Open source Freeware License (c) 2025 GAMECAST Entertainment.
